# Worldwide annual optimum tilt angle model for solar collectors and photovoltaic systems in the absence of site meteorological data

**Version 1.0.0**

Description: The present repository shares multiple regression algorithms for optimum tilt angle position described in the manuscript: Worldwide annual optimum tilt angle model for solar collectors and photovoltaic systems in the absence of site meteorological data. The code uploaded train the algorithms with the data from the databases. Polynomial fitting algorithms, neural networks and decision trees are shared.

Motivation: This study provides several models for accurately computing the annual optimum tilt angle for fixed solar photovoltaic arrays or solar collectors, in any location of the world. The optimum tilt angle that maximizes the annual energy yield can therefore be easily calculated in the absence of meteorological data and simulation software tools. The proposed models are calculated using global horizontal radiation data collected from 2551 sites across the world. In the process, well-established submodels have been selected to estimate the hourly irradiance on any possible inclined surface, and its corresponding annual energy yield. After selecting the optimum angle for each location, through a regression analysis, a mathematical model that calculates annual optimum angles as a function of latitude has been developed. Furthermore, regression techniques such as neural networks and decision trees have been compared with the polynomial models. Finally, the results are compared to those obtained from high-quality 1-min measured irradiance data obtained at 52 research-class stations from the World Radiation Monitoring Center–Baseline Surface Radiation Network, providing a remarkably high number of validation data points. The results are analyzed, validated, and compared with previous research proposals proving the good performance of the proposed models.

Please, if the code is used, I would appreciate attribution. This usually includes adding the following reference: 

Chinchilla, M., Santos-Martín, D., Carpintero-Rentería, M., & Lemon, S. (2021). Worldwide annual optimum tilt angle model for solar collectors and photovoltaic systems in the absence of site meteorological data. Applied Energy, 281, 116056.
